LAB 06: Data sources versus resources
Track: Azure (PLAN ONLY)
Tier: 1
Estimated time: 25 minutes
Exam objectives: 8d, 7a, 6c
Pairs with: AWS lab 06

SCENARIO
  A resource is something Terraform creates and owns. A data source is
  something that already exists, which Terraform reads and will never
  change or destroy.

  The AWS lab used aws_caller_identity to answer "who am I". Azure's
  equivalent returns more, because Azure has an extra layer of hierarchy
  that AWS has no counterpart for.

YOUR TASK
  1. Declare a data source for the current client configuration. It takes
     no arguments at all.

  2. Create a resource group and a storage account.

  3. Tag the storage account with the subscription ID pulled from the
     data source rather than hardcoded.

  4. Output subscription_id, tenant_id, object_id, and the created
     resource group name.

  5. Plan. Note which outputs already have real values in the plan and
     which are (known after apply). Work out why the data source values
     are known and the resource values are not.

  6. Look at tenant_id and subscription_id together. AWS has an account
     ID and nothing above it. Azure has a tenant containing
     subscriptions. Write down what that extra layer is for.

  7. Consider ownership. If you ran terraform destroy on this
     configuration, what would happen to the subscription? Answer before
     checking the solution.

CONSTRAINTS
  - Do not apply, and do not destroy.
  - The subscription ID must come from the data source, never typed as a
    literal.
  - The data source must take no arguments.

SUCCESS CRITERIA
  - terraform plan reports 2 to add. The data source is NOT counted,
    because reading is not creating.

  - subscription_id and tenant_id show real values during plan, while the
    storage account's computed attributes show (known after apply).

  - You can state what terraform destroy would do to the subscription.

HINTS
  1. The data source is azurerm_client_config. Read its page; the
     argument list is empty, which is unusual and correct.

  2. Data sources are read during PLAN, which is why their values are
     already known. Resources are created during APPLY, so their computed
     attributes cannot be known earlier.

  3. Shape:

         data "azurerm_client_config" "current" {}

         tags = {
           Subscription = data.azurerm_client_config.current.subscription_id
         }

     On step 6: a tenant is an Entra ID directory, the identity boundary.
     One tenant can contain many subscriptions, which are the billing and
     resource boundary. AWS collapses these into one account. This is why
     Azure role assignments reference a scope path and AWS IAM policies
     reference ARNs, and it is the reason lab 21's provider aliasing has
     more to configure on Azure than on AWS.

     On step 7: nothing. Terraform does not own the subscription, it only
     read facts about it. Destroy removes the resource group and storage
     account. That is the whole point of a data source, and the reason
     reading an existing resource group with a data source is safer than
     declaring one you did not create.
