LAB 06: Data sources versus resources
Track: AWS (LocalStack)
Tier: 1
Estimated time: 20 minutes
Exam objectives: 8d, 8e, 7a, 6d

SCENARIO
  Every configuration you have written so far creates everything it uses.
  Real configurations almost never do. They sit inside an account that
  already has a VPC someone else owns, an AMI published by a vendor, a
  KMS key managed by the security team.

  A data source is how Terraform reads something it does not own. The
  distinction between "I manage this" and "I merely read this" is the
  single most important idea in this lab, because getting it wrong means
  either destroying something you did not own or duplicating something
  that already existed.

YOUR TASK
  1. Copy the starter files. All work is in main.tf.

  2. Build the four things described by the TODO comments: one bucket, a
     data source reading that same bucket, two data sources describing
     the caller, and a log group named from the data source.

  3. Create outputs.tf exposing four values:

         resource_bucket_arn      the ARN from the RESOURCE
         data_source_bucket_arn   the ARN from the DATA SOURCE
         region                   from the region data source
         account_id               from the caller identity data source

  4. Apply. Compare the two ARN outputs. Then look at what account_id
     came back as, and think about what that tells you about LocalStack.

  5. Run terraform state list and count the entries. Data sources appear
     there, prefixed differently from resources. Note the prefix.

  6. Run plan again with no changes. Watch the output for the difference
     between how Terraform treats the resource and how it treats the data
     sources. One is refreshed, the others are read.

  7. Destroy. Read the output carefully and count how many things were
     destroyed, then compare that to how many entries were in state.
     The difference is the entire lesson of this lab.

CONSTRAINTS
  - The data source must reference the resource, not repeat the bucket
    name as a string literal. This is not a style preference, and step 2
    asks you why.

  - The log group name must come from the data source, not the resource.

  - Do not add depends_on anywhere. Every ordering here should fall out
    of references.

SUCCESS CRITERIA
  - terraform apply reports:
        Apply complete! Resources: 2 added, 0 changed, 0 destroyed.

    Note that it says 2, not 5, even though you declared five blocks.
    Explaining that number is the success criterion.

  - resource_bucket_arn and data_source_bucket_arn are identical.

  - region is us-east-1 and account_id is a twelve digit string.

  - terraform state list shows 5 entries, 3 of which start with "data.".

  - terraform destroy reports 2 destroyed, not 5.

HINTS
  1. The documentation page is "Data Sources" in the Terraform language
     docs. Read the opening paragraph about what a data source is for,
     then look at how its address differs from a resource address when
     referenced.

  2. A data block looks almost exactly like a resource block but starts
     with the word data. The difference appears when you REFERENCE it:
     a resource is aws_s3_bucket.managed, while a data source is
     data.aws_s3_bucket.lookup. That data. prefix is required and is the
     most common thing to forget.

     On the first-apply question: if you hardcoded the bucket name, the
     data source would have nothing to depend on, so Terraform would be
     free to read it before the bucket was created, and the read would
     fail.

  3. Shapes:

         data "aws_s3_bucket" "lookup" {
           bucket = aws_s3_bucket.managed.bucket
         }

         data "aws_region" "current" {}

     Referencing one:

         value = data.aws_s3_bucket.lookup.arn

     On the destroy count: data sources are not created, so there is
     nothing to destroy. They are read on every plan and apply, and they
     vanish from state when you stop declaring them. Terraform never
     deletes the real thing a data source points at, which is exactly the
     property that makes data sources safe to point at infrastructure
     another team owns.
