LAB 05: Local values to avoid repetition
Track: AWS (LocalStack)
Tier: 1
Estimated time: 25 minutes
Exam objectives: 8c, 8e, 6c, 6d

SCENARIO
  You have inherited a configuration that works. Three resources, each
  carrying the same four tags, each with a name built from the same two
  words. Nothing is broken.

  Then the platform team announces every resource must now carry a
  CostCentre tag. That is a four line change repeated three times, and
  you have to get all three identical. Next quarter the naming convention
  flips and you do it again.

  Repetition in infrastructure code is not a style problem. It is a
  correctness problem, because the copies drift and drift silently.

YOUR TASK
  1. Copy the starter files. Read main.tf and count the duplication
     before changing anything.

  2. Create variables.tf declaring four variables:

         project_name   string, default "analytics"
         environment    string, default "dev"
         owner          string, default "data-platform"
         extra_tags     map(string), default {}

  3. Create locals.tf declaring three local values:

         name_prefix   the project name and environment joined with a
                       hyphen, built from the variables

         common_tags   the four tags every resource shares, built from
                       the variables rather than hardcoded

         tags          common_tags with extra_tags layered on top, so a
                       caller can add or override a tag without editing
                       this file

  4. Refactor main.tf so every resource uses those locals. No literal
     "analytics", "dev", "data-platform" or "Terraform" should remain
     anywhere in main.tf.

  5. Prove the refactor changed nothing. Do this BEFORE adding any
     outputs, so the check is not muddied.

     Apply the ORIGINAL configuration first, then refactor, then plan
     again. A correct refactor produces exactly:

         No changes. Your infrastructure matches the configuration.

     That line is the whole point of the lab. Getting it is the proof
     that a refactor of the code was not a change to the infrastructure.

  6. Now create outputs.tf exposing name_prefix and the final tags map,
     and plan again.

     This time you will NOT get "No changes", even though you still have
     not touched a single resource. Read what Terraform says instead, and
     work out what it implies about where outputs are stored.

  7. Demonstrate the payoff. Add a CostCentre tag to every resource by
     editing exactly one place. Plan should show 3 resources changing.

  8. Try to override a common tag from the outside:

         terraform plan -var='extra_tags={Owner="platform-team"}'

     Confirm the override wins, and work out why.

  9. Destroy.

CONSTRAINTS
  - The refactored configuration must produce identical infrastructure.
    If step 6 shows any resource being changed or replaced, the refactor
    is wrong.

  - No string literal that appears more than once may remain in main.tf.

  - tags must be built with a function, not by writing out the merged
    map by hand.

  - Do not turn name_prefix into a variable. It is derived from other
    variables, and that distinction is the point of locals existing.

SUCCESS CRITERIA
  - apply of the original reports 3 added.

  - After refactoring but BEFORE adding outputs, plan reports exactly:
        No changes. Your infrastructure matches the configuration.

  - After adding outputs, plan reports "Changes to Outputs" and tells you
    it can apply this "without changing any real infrastructure". You can
    explain what that means about where output values live.

  - Adding CostCentre in one place produces a plan showing 3 to change.

  - The extra_tags override in step 8 replaces the Owner tag rather than
    being ignored or erroring.

  - terraform output shows name_prefix as analytics-dev.

  - You can explain in one sentence when to use a local and when to use
    a variable.

HINTS
  1. The documentation page is "Local Values" in the Terraform language
     docs. For combining the two tag maps, look through the collection
     functions list for one that takes multiple maps and returns a single
     map.

  2. Locals are declared in a locals block, plural, and referenced with
     local.name, singular. That inconsistency trips up everyone once.
     A local can reference a variable and can reference another local.
     A variable can reference neither, which is precisely why both exist.

     For the tags, merge() combines maps and later arguments win on a key
     collision. The order of its arguments decides who wins.

  3. Shape:

         locals {
           name_prefix = "${var.project_name}-${var.environment}"

           common_tags = {
             Project   = var.project_name
             ManagedBy = "Terraform"
           }

           tags = merge(local.common_tags, var.extra_tags)
         }

     On when to use which: a variable is an input someone outside your
     configuration sets. A local is a value you compute inside it. If a
     caller should be able to change it, it is a variable. If it is
     derived from things a caller already set, it is a local. Making
     name_prefix a variable would let someone set a prefix that
     contradicts project_name and environment, which is a bug you can
     design out of existence.
