LAB 03: Outputs and referencing resource attributes
Track: AWS (LocalStack)
Tier: 1
Estimated time: 20 minutes
Exam objectives: 8c, 8e, 6d, 6e

SCENARIO
  The reporting stack you are building will be consumed by another team.
  They need the bucket ARN to write an IAM policy against it, and the log
  group ARN to point their alerting at.

  Right now that information exists only inside your state file. Outputs
  are how a configuration publishes values outward, whether outward means
  a human, a shell script, or another Terraform configuration consuming
  this one as a module.

YOUR TASK
  1. Copy the starter files into your working directory. Everything
     except outputs.tf is complete. All your work happens in outputs.tf.

  2. Declare the four outputs described by the TODO comments.

  3. Run plan and read it carefully BEFORE applying. Some of your outputs
     will show a real value and others will show something else. Work out
     why before continuing.

  4. Apply. The outputs print at the end.

  5. Retrieve values afterwards without re-running apply:

         terraform output
         terraform output bucket_arn
         terraform output -raw bucket_arn
         terraform output -json

     Compare the second and third. The difference matters the moment you
     use one inside a shell script.

  6. Destroy, then run terraform output again and note what happens.

CONSTRAINTS
  - Do not edit main.tf. If you are changing resources, you have gone
    sideways.

  - connection_summary must be built from the resource attributes, not
    from the project_name variable. Using the variable produces the same
    text while teaching you nothing.

  - Give every output a description. It is not decoration. It appears in
    terraform output -json and in generated module documentation.

SUCCESS CRITERIA
  - terraform apply reports:
        Apply complete! Resources: 2 added, 0 changed, 0 destroyed.
    followed by an Outputs: section listing all four.

  - bucket_arn is: arn:aws:s3:::reporting-data

  - terraform output -raw bucket_arn prints the ARN with no surrounding
    quotes, suitable for piping into another command.

  - You can explain why some outputs showed (known after apply) during
    plan while others showed their real value.

  - terraform destroy reports 2 destroyed.

HINTS
  1. The documentation page is "Output Values" in the Terraform language
     docs. To find which attributes a resource exposes, read the
     Attribute Reference section at the BOTTOM of that resource's page in
     the AWS provider docs, not the Argument Reference at the top. Those
     are two different lists and the distinction is the lesson here.

  2. Arguments are what you set. Attributes are what you can read back,
     and they include everything you set plus everything AWS computed
     during creation. An attribute AWS computes cannot be known before
     the resource exists, which is exactly what plan means when it prints
     (known after apply).

  3. Referencing an attribute:

         value = aws_s3_bucket.data.arn

     Building a composed string:

         value = "bucket ${aws_s3_bucket.data.bucket} logging to ${aws_cloudwatch_log_group.audit.name}"

     On the CLI difference: plain terraform output quotes strings because
     it is displaying a value to a human. The -raw flag prints the bare
     string with no quotes and no trailing newline, which is what command
     substitution in a script needs.
