LAB 01: Provider configuration and first resource
Track: AWS (LocalStack)
Tier: 1
Estimated time: 20 minutes
Exam objectives: 3a, 3b, 3d, 4c, 6b, 6c, 6d, 6e, 6f

SCENARIO
  Your team has decided to manage its build artifact storage with
  Terraform instead of clicking through a console. Before anyone
  writes real infrastructure, you need to prove the toolchain works
  end to end against the local emulator, so that mistakes during
  learning cost nothing.

  This lab is that proof. It is deliberately small. The point is not
  the bucket, it is understanding what every line of provider
  configuration is doing and why Terraform needs it.

YOUR TASK
  1. Copy the starter files into a working directory outside this
     repository. Do not edit the originals.

  2. Complete the provider block in main.tf so that Terraform sends
     its API calls to LocalStack instead of real AWS. The block has
     TODO comments marking what is missing.

  3. Add an aws_s3_bucket resource named "artifacts" with the bucket
     name "team-build-artifacts".

  4. Run the full core workflow in order: init, validate, plan, apply.
     Read the plan output before approving it rather than typing yes
     immediately.

  5. Confirm the bucket exists from outside Terraform, using the AWS
     CLI pointed at LocalStack.

  6. Investigate logging. Run this, with no other changes:

         TF_LOG_PATH=terraform.log terraform plan

     Now check terraform.log. Do not just check that it exists. Check
     its size, with ls -l, or dir on Windows.

     Then work out what is actually required to get log content, and
     make it happen. Write down what you found before reading hint 3.

     On Windows PowerShell, set an environment variable for a single
     command like this:

         $env:TF_LOG_PATH="terraform.log"; terraform plan

     and clear it afterwards with:

         Remove-Item Env:\TF_LOG_PATH

  7. Destroy everything. Confirm the bucket is gone from both
     Terraform state and the AWS CLI.

CONSTRAINTS
  - Use explicit endpoint configuration. Do not use tflocal for this
    lab, even if you have it installed. Seeing the endpoint block is
    the lesson.

  - Set access_key and secret_key explicitly to the literal string
    "test". Do not rely on a credentials file or environment
    variables, and do not use real credentials.

  - Do not add a versioning, policy or encryption resource. One
    bucket, nothing else.

SUCCESS CRITERIA
  - terraform validate reports: Success! The configuration is valid.

  - terraform apply reports exactly:
        Apply complete! Resources: 1 added, 0 changed, 0 destroyed.

  - terraform state list outputs exactly one line:
        aws_s3_bucket.artifacts

  - This command lists your bucket:
        aws --endpoint-url=http://localhost:4566 s3 ls

  - You can explain in one sentence what TF_LOG_PATH on its own
    produced, and why that result is more misleading than an outright
    error would have been.

  - terraform destroy reports:
        Destroy complete! Resources: 1 destroyed.

  - After destroying, the s3 ls command above returns nothing.

HINTS
  1. The provider documentation for LocalStack-style setups is under
     "Custom Service Endpoints" in the AWS provider docs. For the
     logging question, look at the debugging page in the Terraform
     CLI documentation, and pay attention to how many environment
     variables are described there rather than just the one you were
     given.

  2. The provider needs an endpoints block, and it needs to be told
     to skip three validation steps that only make sense against real
     AWS: credentials validation, the metadata API check, and the
     account ID lookup. S3 additionally needs path style addressing,
     because LocalStack does not resolve bucket names as subdomains
     the way real S3 does. For logging, TF_LOG_PATH says where to
     write. Something else says whether to write at all.

  3. The endpoints block takes one entry per service you use, and
     they all point at the same address:

         endpoints {
           s3 = "http://localhost:4566"
         }

     For logging, TF_LOG is the switch. Valid levels are TRACE,
     DEBUG, INFO, WARN and ERROR. TF_LOG_PATH only redirects output
     that TF_LOG has already enabled. Setting the path alone creates
     the file and leaves it empty, which is why checking that the
     file exists is not the same as checking that logging works.
